	In academic writing, insert a comma before the conjunction that precedes the last element of a series of more than two items (e.g., bread, eggs, and milk).
	“i.e.” requires a comma; it is the same as saying “for example,” and then listing items.

	For clarity, the words or phrases in a list should be parallel in form.

	A “-tion” ending indicates a verb form that has been converted to a noun form. Often using the verb form is simpler.

	The convention in English is to capitalize only the first letters of proper nouns, which are the official names of people, places, objects, or events, even if they are part of a technical term.

	Research cited in the document should be referred to in the past tense.
	The past tense is commonly used in academic writing when describing the methods and steps used in an experiment that has already been conducted.

	Use an “en dash,” with spaces, for ranges. (In Word, an en dash is Ctrl + -)
	Only use “respectively” if you have two lists of items that line up with each other in the order they were listed.
	The phrase “et al.” is accompanied by a plural verb, because it refers to multiple people.
	The preposition “in” is used when describing a change, such as an increase or decrease, whereas “of” is used for the magnitude of the change.
	In scientific and technical writing, the prevailing style is to write out the numbers zero to ten. Although the main concern should be expressing numbers consistently.

	This is the British spelling.
	This is the American spelling.

	Hyphenate all the words in a compound adjective.
	Compound adjectives that modify a noun are typically hyphenated (But not when the first word of the adjective is an adverb ending with “-ly.”)
	This word is acting as an adjective here, so it does not use a plural form.
	Adjectives have a certain correct order. While many native English speakers do not consciously know this order, it will just sound wrong if the order is not followed.

	Redundancy, that is, the unnecessary repetition of words or ideas, should be avoided in academic writing.
	The use of too many words to convey one idea can muddle the message and divert the reader’s attention. Therefore, especially academic writing, ideas need to be conveyed as concisely as possible.
	Wordiness (the use of many words to convey an idea) should be avoided in academic writing.
	To achieve conciseness, use the word “respectively” to link two or more groups of words.
	Edited for redundancy/wordiness.
	Ω Cancel

	In an academic context, “paper” implies a formal written composition that is intended to be published, presented, etc. The “study,” on the other hand, is the 	actual work carried out.
	In technical writing, the word “since” is reserved for time-related references. To indicate causality, replace “since” with synonyms such as “because.”
	The pronoun “which” is used to introduce nonessential or supplementary information, and the pronoun “that” is used to include essential information.
	“Use” is almost always a better word choice than “utilize.”
	“Using” is almost always a better word choice than “utilizing.”
	“indices” is the correct form and should be used in formal writing, although “indexes” is acceptable in other contexts.
	The plural form “researches” is an older form that is very rarely used. “Studies” is better.
	“is able to” is an unnecessarily complicated way to say “can.”
	“was able to” is an unnecessarily complicated way to say “could.”

	Use the indefinite article “a” when referring to a single, nonspecific object that begins with a consonant.
	Use the indefinite article “an” when referring to a single, nonspecific object if the next word begins with a vowel sound.​
	The article “an” is used with nouns that begin with a vowel sound, irrespective of the letter they begin with.
	Use the definite article “the” when referring to a specific object that the reader can identify.
	The first time you reference something use an indefinite article, then use a definite article when you repeat that object. (Because once it has been introduced, it is then known to the 		reader.)
	Do not use an article with countries, states, counties or provinces, lakes or mountains, except when the country is a collection of states such as “the” United Kingdom.
	Use an article with bodies of water, oceans, and seas.
	Phrases such as “complex 1” and “group C” should not be preceded by the article “the,” because the letter or number appearing after the noun makes the noun unique, thus eliminating the need 	for an article."
	The definite article “the” is used before decades (e.g., the 1980s).
	Superlatives such as “highest” and “fastest” take the definite article “the” before them.
	Ordinal adjectives such as “first,” “fifth,” and “last” are typically preceded by the definite article “the.”
	In a series of nouns that take the same article, the article need not be repeated before every noun.
	Do not use an article when you are speaking about meals, places, and transport.
	Use the plural form to refer to a category of thing, as opposed to an instance of the thing.
	Do not use “the” or “a” when referring to a category of thing rather than to a specific instance of the thing.
	Articles such as “a,” “an,” and “the” are generally not required in titles, headings, or captions.
	Do not start a caption with an article (“a,” “an,” or “the”)

	A period is typically not needed at the end of a title or heading.
	Avoid using numerals at the beginning of sentences, titles, or headings.
	Do not start a caption with a phrase like “Flowchart of…” or “Graph of…” Just state what the image shows.
	Figures and tables should be referred to in the present tense.

	"Avoid using contractions like “can’t” in academic writing."
	"Avoid using contractions like “didn’t” in academic writing."
	"Avoid using contractions like “don’t” in academic writing."
	"Avoid using contractions like “doesn’t” in academic writing."
	"Avoid using contractions like “I’d” in academic writing."
	"Avoid using contractions like “won’t” in academic writing."

	"You do not need to define an abbreviation that you never use."
	"You do not need to define an abbreviation in the abstract that you never use in the abstract."
	"Once you define an abbreviation, use it."
	"Define an abbreviation the first time you use it. Please make sure this is the correct definition."
	"Redefine the abbreviation in the main text. Some readers will not read both the abstract and the main text."
	"When using an abbreviation, the last word that the abbreviation stands for should not be repeated after it."
	"Most journals require that an abbreviation be spelled out at its first occurrence in the text, followed by the abbreviation in parentheses. (Exception: If the abbreviation is on the journal's list of permitted abbreviations, this need not be done.) Thereafter, only the abbreviation may be used. Please check if the expanded form of this abbreviation should be provided."
	“al” is an abbreviation and requires a period.

	"Avoid using short coordinating conjunctions like “and” and “but” at the beginning of a sentence."
	"Avoid using short coordinating conjunctions like “and” and “so” at the beginning of a sentence."
	"Comma splice: Two complete sentences should not be joined with only a comma. Use either a semicolon or a comma followed by a conjunction.");
	"Compound sentences require a comma before the conjunction."
	"Do not put a comma before the conjunction because this is not two sentences. It is one subject with a compound predicate."
	"Use a semicolon rather than a comma to join sentences with a conjunctive adverb."

	"“a lot of” is too informal."
	"“What's more” is too informal for academic writing."
	"“Nowadays” is too informal for academic writing."
	"“more and more” is too informal for academic writing."
	"“Huge” is too informal for academic writing."
	In formal American English, periods and commas go inside the quotes, even if they were not part of the thing being quoted.
	“and/or” should be avoided in formal writing.

	This is not clear." + Environment.NewLine + Environment.NewLine + "If you contact me via your Client Manager with an explanation of your meaning, I will be 	happy to review and correct your wording.
	Please make sure I did not change your intended meaning.
	This is a better word here.
	This is a more natural wording.
	This is a simpler, clearer sentence structure.
	This was changed for consistency with other occurrences in your paper.
	Ω Cancel

	A comma should preferably be inserted after introductory words and phrases.
	Words with opposite meanings (e.g., higher and lower) should be used in pairs and should not be mixed with other pairs.
	As a general rule, verb tenses within a sentence or a paragraph should be consistent.
	Split infinitive: in formal writing, do not put any word between “to” and the verb it goes with, even though it is common in everyday speech.
	If you introduce a list with “such as,” it is redundant to use “and so on” or “etc.” at the end. “Such as” already means that the list is only a partial 	sampling of the items.
	A singular subject should be accompanied by a singular verb, and plural subject should be accompanied by a plural verb.
	Here, the subject is “ ___ ,” so a plural verb form should be used.
	Here, the subject is “ ___ ,” so a singular verb form should be used.
	Elements in a series are usually separated by commas but are separated by semicolons if the elements themselves contain commas.
	Only use a colon at the end of a complete sentence.
	When possible, the simplest and clearest sentence structure is in the order of subject-verb-object.
	Use commas around the “such as” clause when the items listed are non-restrictive, i.e., the sentence works with or without the list.